before thomas takes us on this wild
experience in one of the rarest travel
destinations in the world we just wanted
to let you know that our black friday
drop for seek discomfort is currently
live and it will be on for the next
seven days and as you will see in this
episode we got to use seek discomfort to
provide funds to making someone's very
special dream come true in afghanistan
for every order over 35 dollars you will
be getting two seek discomfort flags
for free again the seek discomfort black
friday drop is currently live for the
next seven days
make sure you check out sega's
comfort.com now to afghanistan
i'm about to fly to one of the most
dangerous countries
in the world as a storyteller i'm
interested in people
and places that can defy our previous
assumptions
make us expand our perspective and
expose our limited world view
throughout my experiences over the past
few years i've learned
that nothing is black and white nothing
is as
simple as we'd like it to be instead
everything is more like various shades
of grey
there's good and evil everywhere which
is why i decided to visit a country i
never thought i'd see in my life
afghanistan afghanistan has been in a
continuous war since the soviet invasion
in 1979 which eventually nine years
later as the war ended
led to a civil war for power between
militia groups and over time the
gruesome control of the country by the
taliban
the final and current chapter is one
we're all more familiar with
the us invasion in 2001. the united
states military has begun strikes in
afghanistan
which unfortunately after 19 years still
hasn't fully ridden the country
of terrorist groups the complexity of
the political situation
has unfortunately given afghanistan a
bad reputation
around the world hiding its immensely
rich and beautiful culture
from all of our eyes and today i'm
hoping to change that
but this doesn't take away from the fact
that i am flying to a country that is
still
incredibly dangerous foreigners get
kidnapped for ransoms
random bombings happen throughout the
country every week if not every day and
having a local guide who understands
where civil limits end and where taliban
borders begin
is absolutely imperative luckily i'll be
going with my friend
drew binsky a fellow content creator who
has the goal to visit every country
and is currently at 190. he's been to
afghanistan
before with his incredible guide noir
who's taken over 500 tourists to visit
his country he's so incredibly proud of
but first a very valid question that i
think many of you will have
is what about the pandemic i got tested
three days before leaving the day before
leaving
the day i left and the day after i left
all four times
tested negative i've now been isolated
at home for the past 14 days and neither
me
drew or our guide nor have shown any
symptoms
and i know that we've said this many
times before but given how much is
outside of my control on this one
and that my return flight leaves 96
hours later
this is definitely the most uncertain
and dangerous trip i've ever signed up
for
[Music]
the trip to the most dangerous country
in the world supposedly it's about to
begin
feeling very very nervous i woke up to a
lot of missed calls from family
trying to persuade me not to go for now
though time to catch this flight
the middle of the night
i can't see another white person around
at the moment
[Music]
on the bus ride over here i looked down
and i remembered that i was wearing
love over fear and uh took a moment to
think about
what does that mean in this moment i
feel like this
trip fully embodies fear
you google afghanistan and all you see
is explosions is terror is misery
and on top of that i've never had this
much backlash
on any trip that i've ever done
it's not just fear in the news it's also
fear from people around me
and then obviously fear within myself i
can sense my own
ignorance already because i'm afraid i'm
sitting here and i feel completely
different from all of these people
and so for me in this moment love over
fear means
surrendering to the truth that humanity
is inherently
good because any time in the past when
i've truly followed my gut
and chosen love over fear it's turned
out to be the greatest decision
i've ever made especially when fear is
particularly loud
how you doing thank you
[Music]
goodbye
well taking my first steps in the
country
hi of afghanistan so far everybody's
just
been incredibly nice many people asked
to make sure that i have somebody here
to take care of me
and i'm not fully on my own it's the
most people that have ever talked to me
on a flight before
dude how are you oh my god
dude welcome to afghanistan what are we
doing right now
oh my god look at your outfit you made
it how are you good
i'm thomas this is noah great to meet
you norman very welcome to afghanistan
oh my god thank you so much for
having me
thanks i forgot about that welcome to
terraps
on this four day trip we're going to
spend the majority of it in the
historical city located in the western
part of the country
herat herat is the third largest city
in afghanistan and felt like the perfect
city to get a first
short glimpse into the country
amazing i'm almost tearing up looking at
the window right now
i'm in like complete disbelief it's it's
a landscape and a place that i genuinely
never thought i would see in my lifetime
so to actually be here and see it
i uh i can't wait out of all the
countries in the world man like
this one is the most i guess the word
out uses surreal to be here because you
hear about afghanistan on the news
you hear about these bombings there was
a bombing yesterday in kabul a lot of
them don't even make the news anymore
because it's happening so often
and as we speak the taliban is
controlling about 50 percent of
afghanistan it's pretty scary there's
only
how many provinces are open six uh yeah
six to seven provinces for now
out of how many out of thirty four oh
wow in here uh we don't really have like
uh
like too much taliban and stuff like
that but we
we have like some random thieves
some kidnappings when you like go
quite away from the city center how far
away
like probably like four to five
kilometers
[Music]
oh
it's a big gate at the entrance of our
hotel
[Music]
oh what a place
wow oh
look at our hotel in hirats
thank you
wow what are we doing now all right i
got your traditional afghan outfit here
and a matching blue turban for you
amazing let's get you all dry this is
step number one of blending in right
it's kind of respect to the culture to
the outfit and
people really like it when they see you
with this
normal clothing it automatically creates
a friendly atmosphere
how do i not rip this yeah it's
sometimes tough to get it on
this is our daily outfit yeah you'll get
used to it don't worry it's really
comfortable when you start wearing it
blending in all done i asked you like
all day
whoa whoa
wow how do you feel man that is not what
i was expecting that's amazing
it's amazing right wow
this is the bulletproof door
[Music]
oh wow thank you it's not the not the
official moment yet
[Music]
wow so this is the
outside of the friday mosque on turret
[Music]
the backdrop of this mosque behind us is
really interesting it's uh there's a
whole bunch of kids playing qriket
on the little dirt patch available and
above us
are some apache helicopters all the
reminders of where you are all at once
how are you good
should i film this oh yeah yeah yeah
they really want me to film this moment
i don't know
yes yes
we've been caught up in the middle of
this cricket game and it's everyone's
going crazy
oh
[Music]
he's directing me right now what should
i film this yeah
dude you're ballsy for giving anyone
your camera he just wants to fight
drew said it was very ballsy with me to
give my camera away to one of the kids
one of them would run away with it but
no he just wants to try it this guy's a
future director right here
[Music]
very good
yes what just happened just came up to
me and asked me
to try to figure out where it was from
yeah they were just really nice
well we are now actually stepping inside
of
the mosque holy it is much
bigger than i expected
[Music]
what are you guys doing here just
visiting or are you just visiting yeah
what can i do for you
oh just nothing man yeah hello yeah just
hello great to meet you
yeah amazing thank you they're
incredibly friendly like he literally
just asked the question what can i do
for you
unbelievable that's just part of the
conversation
here
[Music]
like i didn't grow up particularly
religious but when you're here and you
have those shared experiences with
people
it feels like the pinnacle of what the
point of religion is which is just
connection and love and like caring for
each other looking at someone in the
eyes that
has a completely different life than
yours and speaks a completely different
language
uh and having a connection those are the
times where you have like a shared
moment of humanity
that like transcend culture transcends
borders
transcends language it transcends belief
it's just like hey i have no idea what
you have been through
and it's definitely completely different
than what i've been through
but maybe that's a part of what
contributes to us having like a moment
of friendship
even though we can't even communicate
with each other right i feel like we've
had a few of those experiences here as
well
where you're like just connecting human
to human and that's it
and you're just fully present with each
other you don't understand each other
right
but it doesn't really seem to matter
because you're with each other
[Music]
oh
[Applause]
so thank you so much for coming both of
you
thank you thank you on our first
full day in the country noor took us to
a place i couldn't believe
existed in afghanistan the citadel of
herat
built in 330 bc during alexander the
great's conquest of the middle east and
asia
this citadel would serve as home to many
rulers in the following centuries
afghanistan was located right in the
middle of the ancient
silk road where the east meets the west
the herats and surrounding cities
thrived
from the international exchange of goods
knowledge and traditions
this citadel serves as a reminder of
afghanistan's deep roots and its impact
on the world
there are some military choppers flying
above us right now
it's a clear reminder that even though
we're here in this peaceful
citadel we are still in afghanistan and
as a reminder you get quite often as you
drive around and walk around the streets
with all the heavy military
presence pretty much everywhere we're
not able to film any military because if
you get caught doing that
can be some serious issues very strange
experience to have to be in such a
beautiful historical place
and at the same time be reminded of the
context of the country that we're in
so the caretaker of this citadel is
opening the doors for us and taking us
around he just told us he likes our
outfits
everywhere you go when you meet someone
they'll offer you tea yeah
without offering tea it's like they miss
something
like they don't feel comfortable he's
offered us three times so we finally
took it but we finally took it off then
it says
[Music]
i'm really curious to know what his
experience was like when the taliban
took over herat
as known as
a young boy had like a nice haircut or
something they made you go and shave
your head
if if someone like we're tramming their
beard they put him in prison
until the beard regrow and then they
would let him go out
for example the woman they couldn't came
out by themselves
the woman were not allowed to go to
school if you
were caught like stealing they were
chopping the hat i myself i saw hands
hanged on the tree in a square in mazar
sharif
are both you and him worried that once
the u.s troops leave that the taliban
are going to take over the country
everyone is worried about that now
you're now almost there
controlling like 60 70 of the country
like
anywhere just outside of the city you
cannot go
is there distrust amongst people because
you don't know who's
who collaborates with them and who
doesn't yes local people looks like
taliban
taliban also looks like local people
yeah
just thanks for sharing thank you so
much
fascinating looking out the window it's
unlike anything that i've ever seen
basically not a single tourist in this
entire city it kind of feels like a time
capsule in history
it's a culture that's been so isolated
from the rest of the world as well
because of the wars
that being here and seeing it is unlike
any other travel experience that
i've ever had that was awesome
the market is always the first place i
like to go when i visit any any new city
because
you get a feel of what they're wearing
what they're eating how they act
yes to stay for dinner be my guest
you're very welcome to afghanistan and
stuff like that
i've never seen a country with such
diverse
uh like facial features when you go to
the u.s people are very diverse because
they
they've immigrated from all over the
place but the local afghans
like just ethnically look so different
like you see some people
very dark features and then some people
with much more
like south asian teachers right like
it's just like such an amazing
blend
yeah so this is kind of how you do it
man
cool yeah we got a lot of space here
dude that is
this is a lot of food yeah
mix as well all right first real afghan
meal
this looks absolutely delicious
there's no way you want to set it
so we've just been invited to hang out
with some local guys and
smoke some hash dude i love how he just
whipped out a hat
this is crazy look at this stuff cool
so let's go do some cool stuff
those are the best man let's interject
here with a quick culture
and history note apparently afghanistan
produces about 80 percent of the world's
supply of hash
and is rumored to have invented it
centuries ago
we would typically not go after a moment
like this
in a yes theory adventure we don't want
to promote the consumption of either
hash
or alcohol or any kind of substance for
that matter
but given that travel videos often
feature wine in countries like france or
italy we've decided to make an exception
even though the stigma around hash is
much larger around the world that for
the sake of a cultural experience and a
story for the grandkids
to say yes to this invitation
[Music]
well we are walking over to our driver's
house
definitely the more remote area that we
visited so far
no way oh
how you doing
what are we doing right now
[Music]
very good nice yeah
just chilling there's no other better
setting that i would imagine
having this kind of experience it like
literally just feels like homies hanging
after school
[Music]
so the coolest part about this
experience is you feel like you're
hanging out with friends and
you're sick we can't speak
this is my luck
oh that was that was great thank you
goodbye goodbye
oh my god that was amazing
that was so fun thanks for bringing us
are you okay with some
pomegranate juice right now yeah i would
love some pomegranate
okay let's do it yeah
we are getting some pomegranate juice
freshly squeezed off the street
yeah wow that's amazing
never had pomegranate juice before i'm
very glad afghanistan is the first place
that i do absolutely delicious
[Music]
over the next two days nor took us to
the landmarks of herat
so today we're exploring uh more of
herrat
this is the tomb of gerhart begum the
wife of the minister of the 13th century
and although this city has seen
destruction
and invasion for lots of its history
here the complex was so huge
they destroyed all the walls because
they were worried that the russians
would come
and use that as a base so they destroyed
everything it's just interesting to hear
all of the different generations of
people that decided to come here and
destroy this country
one at a time we've taken turns to take
down the beautiful
culture that that has been here for
hundreds if not thousands of years
i also noticed how lively and
flourishing it was
one interesting thing we keep noticing
everywhere is there's kites in the air
really everywhere we go and you see
little kids running around with them
there's three of them right there
there's two right there
there's one over there one right there
pretty incredible it's very endearing
and
just sweet way to see kids playing
together everybody thinks afghanistan is
a really bad place but i'm trying to
tell them it's a very
amazing place thank you thank you so
much there are so
few few little people like you in the
world
thank you so much we have hope we have
energy we have so
so so talent in afghanistan and we're
gonna make
our country to a better situation
every time we ate or walked around
people would offer to have us
at their houses with open arms
you guys look very nice like with afghan
outfits and everything and he hopes the
time you're having in here at you will
have very good time
and he says if you're if you want to
come to our house you're very welcome oh
that's so sweet
but the best part of it was seeing the
love noor had for his country
and history welcome to the shrine of
hajja abdullahi ansar a philosopher
and a poet of hirat during the 10th
century so the age of the stone out
there the gravestone that you see
that's like almost 600 years old
off-camera noor explained to us the
challenging childhood he'd had
and the one way that he thought
afghanistan could change
investing in education his dream was to
start a school for children
left on the streets so on the last night
we decided to sit him down to hear his
story
and surprise him by helping him make his
dream finally come true it's been
amazing getting to know a little bit
about you and i just wanted to have a
conversation a little bit about
your experience being here it feels like
the taliban and just the terror is like
a disease
in a very special place this war has
been going on for
i mean since you were born right i was
born right in the middle of the war
yeah and i was raised in this situation
i was exactly born
in the north of afghanistan a city
called mazar sharif
yeah the toughest moment was when
taliban came to mazar sharif actually
so as a very young kid i saw lots of
lots of
like dead bodies and the day when
taliban came i was
like 11 years old they took over all the
areas and they were stacked at our
village
all of our men came together like even
normal people they left their job and
shops and stuff and then they were
fighting against the taliban
people were so scared and they evacuated
like the whole
the whole area they all like do by
walking they try to
go and escape into the mountains of
charkins out there but unfortunately
lots of them were killed
and died between the city and the
mountains because taliban were shooting
behind them lots of heavy artilleries
25 to 30 percent of the people were
killed like that
on the way from the city to the mountain
so
it was an extremely horrible situation
and well
everyone was scared in our families we
had to leave everything behind like the
family
the house and everything for a while we
stayed quite away from the city like for
a week and after a week we finished our
food and water and everything so we had
to come back to our house
and then when we came back uh the
taliban put our house on fire
so when we reached at the house the
smoke was coming out we tried to
at that time we didn't have like water
and the pipes and we tried our rest but
but we couldn't save the house like for
three days and four
nights our house was on fire and it was
just burning and burning it was a crazy
situation
but it was like a miracle no one
hopefully from our family was lost in
the wars
there's not a lot of times where you
hear these direct stories coming from
people that
lived it hearing the news it's so sad
that we've gone so numb to like oh
another bomb goes off in afghanistan and
the horrible thing is
that's several families losing family
members
and you forget that the people that
suffer the most
from terrorism are the people that are
in the countries where it's happening
it's a bit difficult for me to talk
about this
crazy situations in afghanistan but you
know i have a passion about this country
i'm just really worried about the future
of afghanistan right now
when i see all these amounts of biggers
and kids and children
with no education and they're just
growing older and older
at least to help to offer a better
future for afghanistan so i'm thinking
of making a new
school like a shelter to somehow help
these children
give them the money that they're earning
but instead asking them to come and stay
in the shelter
and educate and i have very good
you know network of my friends people
who are educated
and they want to volunteer to support
these kids
and i'm really hoping at the beginning
of 2021
wow we're having a shelter because
mainly i am
trying to cover the kids who are like
begging on the streets
no families they're just left behind but
still beside that
there are children who have families but
they're extremely poor
these two types because they're really
the future of afghanistan and they
really need support
so i went to bed last night and i was
just staring up at the ceiling
and i was just thinking about this like
what you were telling me and i messaged
my friends
and they all really connect with the
story as well
and as a part of this video we're
releasing seek discomfort clothing
and we would love to take some of the
proceeds from that
and contribute to your school oh that
would be so nice
and so we're thinking of bringing you
ten thousand dollars
oh wow man that's i i can immediately
buy it
buy like a like a piece of land for the
compound
is that true yeah yeah i already like uh
uh four thousand dollars to buy 400
square meters of land for the school but
still we need a lot of money for the
walls like
to build the actual house and everything
so my whole saving from last year was 4
000 and i
like i i separated that four thousand
for the kids and uh i already bought a
piece of land somewhere in mazaru
sheriff so hopefully we're going to
change that to a compound yeah this is
nice of you man this is like really
really touching man you know there's
more to this yeah
so thomas and i have brainstormed about
this and
i would like to make a contribution as
well several thousand dollars i will be
adding
you know man i'm i'm about to cry man oh
no
without your help we're going to go to
the knees man we cannot do anything so
i was i was really i was really hoping
that
someday i i was i was going to do this
you know even my english is kind of
crazy now right okay i i'm sure this
school will
will be a good thing one day and uh and
i will remember that
you guys were almost the first people
who helped me with this
he's almost my friend i can it's i
cannot forget this moment
man this is give a hug
thank you bro you're gonna make
something beautiful and i know it
[Music]
even though i only had four days
afghanistan was truly the most impactful
country
i've ever visited it might not show at
the start of the video
while boarding that first flight i
almost had a panic attack
out of fear basically questioning every
decision i'd ever made up until this
point but deep inside
i knew my gut was telling me to go
because i think today more than ever the
world
needs positive stories that bring us
together i never felt so welcomed before
people were so incredibly friendly and
i'm excited to hopefully come back one
day and see more
as you heard there are obviously lots of
challenges this country is still
facing but i do think that it is
resilient and compassionate people like
noor
who have the ability to create the
positive ripple effect of change the
country needs
offering noor ten thousand dollars to
help start his school was honestly a
split second decision i made
after feeling so touched by his story
but i knew i'd regret leaving the
country without offering tangible help
obviously there would be no way for me
to do this if i wasn't confident that
our community
and seek discomfort wouldn't be reliable
avenues to make something like this
happen
so quickly which is the magic we're able
to create with seek discomfort by
building our own brand
and so if you're interested in
supporting us and getting yourself or
someone you love some clothing for the
holidays
our black friday drop is live right now
and for the next
seven days we hope that you're looking
forward to seeing norah school for
children flourishing in 2021
as much as we are after my covet test
the day before leaving and the day after
when i landed in dubai
i made it out of afghanistan safe and
sound and covet free
i've been home now for the past two
weeks like i'd originally intended and
have been so grateful
for the eye-opening trip this was i hope
that you have a beautiful
rest of your day thank you for watching
all the way to the end and we'll see you
next week
you